---
layout: post
title: |
   The Emperor Julian
date: 2014-09-22
---

Organizer: Gavin Kelly, University of Edinburgh

Sponsored by
the Society for Late Antiquity

Julian ruled as sole emperor
for less than 20 months between November 361 and June 363; however, his
reign is among of the best attested periods of ancient history, and more
of his writings survive than of any previous Roman emperor. The last
pagan emperor was also the first emperor born in Constantinople, and the
first to have been baptized and brought up as a Christian. His religious
reversal made Julian the object of intense interest debate for
contemporaries such as Libanius, Gregory Nazianzen, and Ammianus
Marcellinus (recently illuminated in Gregory's case by Susanna Elm's
*Sons of Hellenism, Fathers of the Church*); he continued to provoke
fascination throughout the Byzantine period and for historians and
writers since the renaissance, including among many others Gibbon,
Ibsen, and Cavafy. Interest in his religious reaction and the vivid
personality revealed in his and his contemporaries' writings has
stimulated numerous popular biographies and biographically oriented
scholarly works, and to some extent overshadowed literary interest in
his works (though see now Nicholas Baker Brian and Shaun Tougher (eds.),
*Emperor and Author*),or interpretation of his actions in the broader
context of fourth-century political history. His context in the
religious history of the period might merit further attention in the
light of contrasting recent views of the religious history of the fourth
century from Alan Cameron and Peter Brown. We invite proposals for
papers on Julian as politician, as author, or as thinker; on the
relationship between his actions and his writing; on Julian in the
context of fourth-century literature and history; and on perceptions of
Julian, whether by contemporaries or by later historians and creative
artists.

This panel, sponsored by the Society for Late
Antiquity, will form part of the 2016 meeting of the Society for
Classical Studies (formerly the American Philological Association), to
take place in San Francisco between **7 and 10 January 2016**. One-page
abstracts (ca. 400 words) for papers requiring a maximum of 20 minutes
to deliver should be sent by email attachment to Gavin Kelly at
[[Gavin.Kelly@ed.ac.uk](mailto:Gavin.Kelly@ed.ac.uk)]{style="text-decoration: underline;"}
no later than Monday, 1**6 February 2015**. Please follow the SCS's
instructions for the format of individual abstracts:
[[http://www.apaclassics.org/index.php/annual_meeting/abstract_instructions/guidelines_for_authors_of_abstracts](http://www.apaclassics.org/index.php/annual_meeting/abstract_instructions/guidelines_for_authors_of_abstracts)]{style="text-decoration: underline;"}.
Prospective panelists must be members in good standing of the SCS at the
time of submission and must include their SCS membership number in the
cover letter accompanying their abstract. All proposals will be judged
anonymously by two referees. Note that submitting an abstract represents
a commitment to attend the meeting and that the Society for Late
Antiquity cannot provide funding for travel.
