---
layout: post
title: Good Behavior/Bad Behavior: Asserting and Advocating Behavioral Norms in Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages
date: 2014-07-11
---

Panel at the 50th International Congress on Medieval Studies, Kalamazoo
**May 14-17, 2015**.

In art, architecture and literature from
Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages, we see good behavior defined,
defended, explained, extolled and urged. We see bad behavior defined,
denounced, exposed, excoriated and urged against. Ecclesiastical
building programs sought to inculcate model behavior and stave off
impropriety; letters contained evaluations of the good or bad behavior
of their carriers; legal contracts offered a veneer of legitimacy for
illegal acts or a sheen of lawlessness for formerly legal acts;
preachers railed against unmanly (and unwomanly) behavior. In this
session we seek to explore what the constructions of good and bad
behavior were in late antiquity and the early middle ages. What can
these constructions tell us about early medieval life, society and
aspirations?

But we are also interested in the process by
which these good behaviors and bad behaviors were inculcated. How did
late antique and early medieval "culture-makers" use visual or verbal
rhetoric to regulate behavior in their audiences? What techniques did
they use to assert their constructions of good and bad behavior, or to
argue against the acceptance of previous definitions? How does a
preacher tell a rich man he's wrong to steal his neighbor's land? How
does a baptistry mosaic help define good behavior? How do laws, poetry,
theological tractates and political actions help their authors define
bad behavior and instill good behavior? In this session we seek to
explore how constructions of good and bad behavior were argued for and
made persuasive. How could behavior be justified as "good" and how
vitiated as "bad" in the various media available in the early middle
ages?

Please submit 300-word abstracts to Diane Fruchtman
(<dianeshanef@gmail.com>) by **September 15,
2014**.

Participant Information form available at
<http://www.wmich.edu/medieval/congress/submissions/index.html#PIF>.
