---
layout: post
title: |
   Travel, Travelers and Traveling in Late Antique Literary Culture
date: 2014-02-27
---

Organizer: Cam Grey, University of Pennsylvania, Sponsored by the
Society for Late Antiquity

The 2015 panel sponsored by the
Society for Late Antiquity at the annual meeting of the American
Philological Association on **January 8-11 2015** in New Orleans will
explore aspects of travel and traveling in late antique literary
culture. Narratives of travel can be found structuring devotional
pilgrimage accounts and ethnographic treatises, and they constitute a
crucial element in hagiographical texts, where the saint's physical
journey often functions as a metaphor and analog for his or her
spiritual journey. These narratives are also enlisted for political and
military purposes, such as the anonymously authored
fourth-century Itinerarium Alexandri or accounts of travel contained in
historiographical works. Meanwhile, the phenomenon of the
imperial adventus acquired an unprecedented level of ceremony and ritual
in the period, and envoys and ambassadors traveled extensively both
within and beyond the boundaries of the empire, treating with domestic
and foreign potentates. Aristocratic and ecclesiastical letter writers
penned---and preserved in their collections---letters of recommendation
for an extraordinary variety of individuals, who appear to have walked
or rode the roads of the Roman with little regard for the apparent
deterioration in safety and security that haunts a work like Rutilius
Namatianus' De Reditu Suo.

The result is a rich body of
material for exploring questions about the role of travel as a
structuring device for authors to employ, a metaphor for them to access,
or even a motivation for them to claim as a reason for writing. We
invite the submission of abstracts offering consideration of these and
other questions about travel, traveling, and travelers in late antique
literary culture. One-page abstracts (ca. 400 words) for papers
requiring a maximum of 20 minutes to deliver should be sent no later
than **March 21, 2014**, by email attachment to Cam Grey
at <grey@sas.upenn.edu>. Please follow the APA's instructions for the
format of abstracts:
<http://www.apaclassics.org/index.php/annual_meeting/abstract_instructions/guidelines_for_authors_of_abstracts>.
All submissions will be judged anonymously by two referees. Those whose
papers are accepted must be members of the APA by March 1, 2014 and must
attend the 2015 meeting in New Orleans. The Society for Late Antiquity
cannot provide funding for travel.
