---
layout: post
title: Interiority and Topographies of Self from Late Antiquity to the Middle Ages
date: 2014-08-07
---

50th International Congress on Medieval Studies, Western Michigan
University, Kalamazoo MI, **May 14-17 2015**

How can we
locate and interpret the constituent elements of a premodern self, and
what are the processes by which articulations of the self were asserted?
Scholars of Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages have recently highlighted
the importance of studying the interior worlds, emotions, and
experiences of individuals and intellectual communities. While we once
heard of an "age of anxiety" (E.R. Dodds), increasingly we hear of the
"invention of the inner self" (Phillip Cary), "inwardness and selfhood"
(Pauliina Remes), "varieties of selves" (Richard Sorabji),
"consciousness and introspection" (Suzanne Stern-Gillet), the "corporeal
imagination" (Patricia Cox Miller), and "inward turns" (Peter Brown,
Kerem Eksen). This panel aims to assemble and place into dialogue
interdisciplinary studies on the premodern self by inquiring into the
constitution of selfhood, individual experience, identity, emotion,
memory, and nostalgia. How are interior worlds represented in our
sources? What is the relationship between self-reflection and physical
and imaginary spaces? How do strategies of self-representation change
over time and space? Most frustratingly, did non-elites have "selves" or
did they take their selves for granted?

A focus on
interiority invites exploration of the role of memory, mobility, and
space on the constitution of self. A topography of self suggests that,
like memory, assertions of the self could be embedded in the built
environment through procession, pilgrimage, patronage, and inscription.
This panel therefore invites studies of literary, documentary, and
material culture that elucidate premodern interiors, anthropologies, or
maps of the self.

Please send paper titles, one-page
abstracts, and a completed participant information form for 15-minute
papers to Jason Moralee (<jmoralee@history.umass.edu>) by **September
15, 2014**. This panel is sponsored by the Five College Medieval
Seminar. Participant information form:
<http://www.wmich.edu/medieval/congress/submissions/index.html#PIF>.
