---
layout: post
title: Shifting Frontiers in Late Antiquity XI
date: 2014-05-19
---

<http://shiftingfrontiers2015.wordpress.com/>

The
Transformation of Poverty, Philanthropy and Healthcare in Late
Antiquity, Iowa City, IA, **March 26-29 2015**.

The eleventh
biennial Shifting Frontiers in Late Antiquity conference will take place
at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, IA, March 26-29, 2015. The
period of Late Antiquity (A.D. 200-700) witnessed great changes in
respect to attitudes towards poverty, philanthropy, and healthcare. The
conference aims to bring together scholars in order to explore these
issues amidst global concerns over poverty and the provision of
healthcare, and questions over the role of private philanthropy in
effecting change within these areas. Two subjects in particular, the
ascendency of Pope Francis to the papacy and debate over the federal
provision of healthcare in the United States, helped to inspire the
conference's goal of surveying how early Christians viewed, wrote upon,
depicted, and grappled with these issues, and how they shaped the late
antique world economically, socially, politically, and topographically.
Questions that we may wish to address are: What were elite attitudes
towards the poor? What do we mean by the "economy of charity"? How did
monasticism shape healthcare in the later empire? What is the
interaction between religion and science?Â  We hope to receive proposals
for papers concerning all aspects of poverty, philanthropy, and
healthcare, which approach these issues from textual, archaeological,
numismatic, papyrological, or epigraphic standpoints.

Two
keynote speakers will be taking part in the conference: Professor Ramsay
MacMullen, Dunham Professor Emeritus in History and Classics, Yale
University (U.S.A.) and Professor Susanna Elm, History Department,
University of California, Berkeley (U.S.A.).

The deadline for
proposals is 15 November 2014. Abstracts should be 200-300 words in
length. Papers should be in English. Proposals from graduate students
are welcome, but they should indicate on their submission whether they
have discussed their proposal with their supervisor or not. We encourage
international applicants, and may be able to provide a limited number of
speaker subvention grants primarily for registration. Please note that
the submission of an abstract carries with it a commitment to attend the
conference should the abstract be accepted.

Proposals should
be sent to: <shiftingfrontiers2015@gmail.com>.
