---
layout: post
title: |
   ASCS (37) 2016
date: 2015-03-30
---

ASCS 37 (2016) is to be held at the University of Melbourne in
Melbourne, Victoria, from **2-5 February 2016**. The conference convener
is Dr K.O. Chong-Gossard (<koc@unimelb.edu.au>).




Full details of the call for papers are at
<http://www.ascs.org.au/news/ascs37_call_for_papers.html>. Further
details will be placed from time to time on the ASCS website
([www.ascs.org.au](http://www.ascs.org.au)), click on the 'News Flash'
on the home page.




All offers of papers must be received by **Friday 31 July 2015**. Any
offers which come in after that date unfortunately will have to be
rejected.




The following requirements will be in place again for this conference.
Only one offer will be accepted from any one person. Those attending the
conference (and offering a paper) must be ASCS members; if you are not a
member and wish to join in order to attend ASCS 37, you can join by
following the relevant instructions on the ASCS website
([www.ascs.org.au](http://amems.unimelb.edu.au/resources/conferences.html#ascs),
under 'membership'). Scholars from countries other than Australia and
New Zealand will not be required to become ASCS members.




An alternative to offering a paper, particularly for postgraduate
students, is a 'poster presentation', and we would be interested in
hearing from anyone who would like to present using this format.




Members may also propose a panel of papers on a particular theme. The
panel structure will need to conform to the 90 minutes allocated to each
session. Applications to have a panel considered must conform to the
[guidelines for panels](http://ascs.org.au/news/index.html) at ASCS.




We also invite archaeological reports as a specific category of
presentation. We recognise that the submitted abstracts may be
projections rather due to the fact that the field season will possibly
take place after the call for papers has closed. Please read the
[guidelines](http://ascs.org.au/news/index.html) for this category
before submitting your proposal.




All offers of papers will be anonymously reviewed by the conference
program review committee. Its task is to make decisions about the
suitability (or not) of the papers offered.
