---
layout: post
title: Tsakopoulos Hellenic Collection Library Research Fellowship Program, 2016-2017
date: 2016-01-22
---

Thanks to generous continued funding from the Elios Charitable
Foundation and additional funding from the Tsakopoulos Hellenic
Foundation, the University Library at California State University,
Sacramento is pleased to announce the continuation of the Library
Research Fellowship Program to support the use of the Tsakopoulos
Hellenic Collection by fellows for scholarly research in Hellenic
studies while in residence in Sacramento. The Program provides a limited
number of fellowships ranging from $1,000 to $4,000 to help offset
transportation and living expenses incurred during the tenure of the
awards and is open to external researchers anywhere in the world at the
doctoral through senior scholar levels (including independent scholars)
working in fields encompassed by the Collection's strengths who reside
outside a 75-mile radius of Sacramento. The term of fellowships can vary
between two weeks and three months, depending on the nature of the
research, and for the current cycle will be tenable from July 1,
2016-June 30, 2017. **The fellowship application deadline is February
26, 2016. No late applications will be
considered.**

Consisting of the holdings of the former Speros
Basil Vryonis Center for the Study of Hellenism, the Tsakopoulos
Hellenic Collection is the premier Hellenic collection in the western
United States and one of the largest of its kind in the country,
currently numbering approximately 75,000 volumes. It comprises a large
circulating book collection, journal holdings, electronic resources,
non-print media materials, rare books, archival materials, art and
artifacts. With its focus on the Hellenic world, the Collection contains
early through contemporary materials across the social sciences and
humanities relating to Greece, the Balkans, the Ottoman Empire and
modern Turkey, and the surrounding region, with particular strengths in
Byzantine, post-Byzantine, and Modern Greek studies, including the Greek
diaspora. There is a broad representation of over 20 languages in the
Collection, with a rich assortment of primary source materials. Since
2009 the collection has experienced particularly dramatic growth through
two major gift acquisitions. For further information about the
Tsakopoulos Hellenic Collection, visit
[http://library.csus.edu/tsakopoulos](http://library.csus.edu/tsakopoulos){target="_blank"}.

For
the full Library Research Fellowship Program description and application
instructions, see:
[http://library.csus.edu/tsakopoulos/lrfp.asp.html](http://library.csus.edu/tsakopoulos/lrfp.asp.html){target="_blank"}.
Questions about the Program can be directed to George I. Paganelis,
Curator, Tsakopoulos Hellenic Collection
([paganelis@csus.edu](mailto:paganelis@csus.edu){target="_blank"}).
