---
layout: post
title: Narrating the Self: Autobiography in Late Antiquity
date: 2016-01-05
---

Society for Late Antiquity sponsored panel at the 2017 Society for
Classical Studies (formerly the APA) annual meeting **5-8 January 2017**
in Toronto -
<https://classicalstudies.org/annual-meeting/2017-annual-meeting>.

In
relation to late antiquity - and, indeed, in relation to antiquity in
general - the term "autobiography" is generically fluid: there was no
genre devoted exclusively to *autobios*, just as there was no genre
devoted exclusively to *bios* considered more broadly. And yet people
still wrote about themselves; they just did so in a variety of modes and
genres. The pace of the production of reflexive works of self-narration
(or works that included such reflexivity) not only did not slow in late
antiquity; it quickened, and from this corpus emerged works that plumbed
the depths of interiority (but for public consumption) in ways that had
not been seen previously. Augustine and Boethius are the most famous,
but not the exclusive, examples of interior self-description that is
simultaneously externalized, mannered, and offered for public review
(cf., recently, S. Squires, "*Contra Academicos* as Autobiography"
[*Scottish Journal of Theology* 64 (2011): 251-64]; P. Turner,
*Truthfulness, Realism, Historicity* [Ashgate, 2012]). In addition,
one might consider poets such as Gregory of Nazianzus, Paulinus of
Pella, Rutilius Namatianus, Paulinus of Nola, or Ausonius; grave
inscriptions; *itineraria*, in so far as they are metaphorical for or
serve the purposes of a description of self-transformation; the
differences and tensions between the self-display of an individual's
various *personae*, for example in literary prefaces, public offices,
and private correspondence; and much else besides.

The
Society for Late Antiquity invites abstracts (*ca*. 500 words) exploring
any aspect of self-narration in late antiquity for its panel at the 2017
Society for Classical Studies (formerly the APA) annual meeting **5-8
January 2017** in Toronto. Abstracts for papers requiring a maximum of
twenty minutes to deliver should be sent no later than **February 15,
2016** by email attachment as .doc or .rtf files to Eric Hutchinson at
ehutchinson@hillsdale.edu. Please follow the SCS's instructions for the
format of individual abstracts:
[https://classicalstudies.org/annual-meeting/guidelines-authors-abstracts](https://classicalstudies.org/annual-meeting/guidelines-authors-abstracts){target="_blank"}.
All submissions will be judged anonymously by two referees. Prospective
panelists must be members in good standing of the SCS at the time of
submission and must include their SCS membership number in the cover
letter accompanying their abstract. The submission of an abstract
represents a commitment to attend the 2017 meeting in Toronto should the
abstract be accepted.
