---
layout: post
title: ASCS 40 (2019)
date: 2018-05-15
---

<div>



The Australasian Society for Classical Studies (ASCS) will
hold its 40th Annual Meeting and Conference at the University of New
England in Armidale, NSW, Australia, ‪from **4-7 Feb 2019**.  We welcome
abstracts on all aspects of the classical world, its reception, and
traditions.

The deadline for the submission of abstracts
is **‪Tuesday 31 July 2018**.

The abstract coversheet,
instructions for submitting abstracts, and guidelines for papers and
panels can be found on
the [ASCS website](http://www.ascs.org.au/news/index.html).

The
conference convenors are Drs Graeme Bourke, Bronwyn Hopwood and Clemens
Koehn.  Please direct enquiries prior to ‪31st
July to Bronwyn Hopwood ([bhopwood@une.edu.au](mailto:bhopwood@une.edu.au){#LPlnk138807}),
or to all three convenors thereafter.

2019 will be an
auspicious year. It marks the 40th Annual Conference of ASCS, the 50th
Anniversary of the Australian Academy of the Humanities, and 60th
Anniversary of the UNE Museum of Antiquities.  We are delighted,
therefore, to announce four special events as part of ASCS 40
(2019):

The 40th ASCS Annual Conference Keynote Lecture will
be delivered by the 2019 ASCS Keynote Speaker, Professor Theresa
Morgan (Oriel College, Oxford).

The 21st A. D. Trendall
Lecture of the Australian Academy of the Humanities will be delivered
jointly by Dr Lea Beness and Associate Professor Thomas Hillard
(Macquarie University).

The 23rd Maurice Kelly Lecture of
the University of New England Museum of Antiquities (UNEMA), will be
delivered by Dr Julie Anderson, Assistant Keeper (Curator), Department
of Ancient Egypt and Sudan (The British Museum).

UNEMA will
also unveil the UNEMA 60th Anniversary Commemorative
Artefact.

A conference website, including detailed
information about the conference venue, transport, accommodation and
registration will be available shortly and linked from the ASCS
page.



</div>
