---
layout: post
title: Late Antique Textualities
date: 2019-02-16
---

Society for Late Antiquity sponsored session for the Society for
Classical Studies meeting **January 2--5, 2020**.  Organizer: Colin
Whiting, American School of Classical Studies at Athens.

In
Latin, *textus* can mean a piece of weaving. Late antiquity is well
thought of as a text or a collocation of texts in which many strands are
woven together--- strands of the old (the Classical past, old genres,
persisting aspects of material culture) and strands of the new
(Christianity, new or hybridized written genres, new or hybridized
elements in material culture or the built environment). At the meeting
of the Society for Classical Studies in Washington, D.C., January 2--5,
2020, the Society for Late Antiquity will sponsor a session on the
various textualities in late antiquity.

We are looking for
papers on textuality in either written texts or material culture. Papers
can consider issues of textuality in late-ancient written texts, e.g.,
language, intertextuality with prior written texts (pagan or Christian),
or even genre. Potential panelists could also propose papers that
consider textuality in material culture or the built environment, e.g.,
aesthetics, building styles, or methods that weave together old and new.
We also encourage prospective panelists to construe the term textuality
broadly and propose papers that transcend and/or question the options
enumerated here.

Abstracts for papers requiring a maximum of
20 minutes to deliver should be sent no later than **February 23,
2019** by email attachment to Colin Whiting at <cwhiting@ascsa.org>. All
submissions will be judged anonymously by two referees. Prospective
panelists must be members in good standing of the SCS at the time of
submission and must include their membership number in the cover letter
accompanying their abstract. Please follow the [SCS's instructions for
the format of individual
abstracts](https://classicalstudies.org/annual-meeting/guidelines-authors-abstracts).
The submission of an abstract represents a commitment to attend the 2020
meeting should the abstract be accepted. No papers will be read in
absentia and the SLA is unable to provide funding for travel to
Washington, D.C.
