---
layout: post
title: AABS Letter to the Australian Minister for Education - Consultation on Job-ready Graduates Package
date: 2020-08-27
---

The President of the Australasian Association for Byzantine Studies has
written to the Minister for Education on behalf of the Association
concerning the Consultation on Job-ready Graduates Package.  The text of
the letter
follows.

______________________________________________

Dear
Minister for Education Tehan, Education Ministers, and Australian
Legislators,

On behalf of the Executive Committee of the
Australasian Association for Byzantine Studies (AABS) and the Australian
National Byzantine Committee, and as elected President of AABS, I ask
you to consider the potential negative impact of your proposed
legislation upon the teaching and learning of Byzantine Studies in
Australia.

Our field of scholarship- Byzantine Studies-
includes writing, teaching and research at the tertiary level spanning
the ancient, medieval and modern Greek languages; the ancient, medieval
and early modern history of the Mediterranean, western Asia, Europe and
North Africa; and the religions, literatures, art, architecture and
archaeology of those areas from Late Antiquity into the Modern era. Our
students come from all parts of the country, and all walks of life. Some
are studying their ancestral languages and cultures with us, while
others are learning about an empire, culture and/or language which
fundamentally shapes contemporary Australia, and the broader world.
Byzantine Studies relates to our Greek, Cypriot, Turkish, Armenian,
Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Italian, Albanian, Macedonian and many
more communities, and to both popular and scholarly knowledge of their
heritage. It relates to the history of every different form of
Christianity, Islam and Judaism, and to the political and religious
issues shaping current politics.

When any of these subjects
which make up Byzantine Studies are offered at the Tertiary level- and
they are rarely offered before then in Australia- they find an eager
audience among students from first to third year, at the Honours level,
in post-graduate study, in continuing education, and to those who will
go on to be educators in our classrooms for the next generation of
Australians. As a national organization, we also publish a long-running
series of low-cost paperback translations into English of Byzantine
texts for the use of our students, and students around the world, the
*Byzantina Australiensia* series (distributed worldwide by Brill). We
hold Byzantine conferences, seminars and other events at universities in
cooperation with ecclesiastical and other community organizations in the
ACT and all six states. We also represent Australia at penteteric
International Byzantine Congresses, and in the yearly work of the global
International Association of Byzantine Studies (AIEB).

On
behalf of the Australasian Association for Byzantine Studies, we support
the work you are doing during this Pandemic, and we are sympathetic to
the need to support Australian universities, students, and jobs into the
future. We know that you are seeking to make Australian universities
stronger for domestic students, to serve more students at every level of
study, and to retain world-class status for Australian universities.
That must include the continued provision of teaching and research
support in the area of Byzantine Studies for all students, both foreign
and domestic. All students studying in Australia should be able, as in
the past, to learn something about the history of ancient, medieval and
modern Europe, Asia and Africa; Greek and other community languages of
Australia; and, most importantly, the religions of Christianity, Judaism
and Islam. It should never be underestimated how important tertiary
education is in contributing to knowledge of the religions, histories,
and languages which shape our nation every day, all across Australia.
Our next generations deserve to be able to study these subjects here in
Australia, as past generations have done. Our university students- this
year, and this decade- will not just teach our next generations, they
will shape future decisions about peace and war, voting and national
priorities, education and national values. We owe it to them to continue
to make these teaching and research areas in Byzantine Studies available
to them.

Sincerely,

Dr Amelia R.
Brown

On behalf of the Australasian Association for Byzantine
Studies.
