---
layout: post
title: New Publication: Hymns, Homilies and Hermeneutics in Byzantium
date: 2020-11-11
---

*Hymns, Homilies and Hermeneutics in Byzantium*, ed. Sarah Gador-Whyte
and Andrew Mellas (Leiden: Brill, 2020).

[Byzantina
Australiensia volume
25](http://www.aabs.org.au/byzaust/hymns-homilies-hermeneutics-in-byzantium/)

The
collection of papers in *Hymns, Homilies and Hermeneutics* explores the
literature of Byzantine liturgical communities and provides a window
into lived Christianity in this period. The papers reflect a growing
interest in the social aspects of the liturgy, begun by pioneering
scholars like Mary Cunningham, Pauline Allen, Susan Ashbrook Harvey, and
Wendy Mayer. The research questions addressed within are vital for
understanding the impacts of the liturgy on the lives and religious
understandings of ordinary people, as well as the theologians and
clerics of the Byzantine church.

Many of the papers in this
book identify hymns and homilies as a means of moral formation in
Byzantium. These liturgical texts are a way of shaping listeners'
responses to scripture and encouraging introspection and repentance. In
John Chrysostom's sermons, there is an intriguing connection between the
golden-mouthed preacher's hermeneutics and the moral exhortations with
which he tends to end his homilies. The two come together in
Chrysostom's desire to transform his listener into a "living embodied
hermeneutic exemplar". Scriptural exegesis becomes a form of soul
therapy, a way to guide listeners into the right way to live virtuous,
Christ-like lives. Chrysostom was not alone in treating preaching this
way---other contemporary preachers likewise saw their role as "trainers
of souls concerned with the virtuous life, spiritual happiness, and
soul-therapy". Nor was Chrysostom alone in bringing together scriptural
exegesis and moral formation---he and his contemporaries were inspired
by Greco-Roman philosophical and rhetorical traditions and Jewish
midrash traditions "in which instruction in the truths or wisdom
collected in scripture and their application to the moral formation of
the human being are indivisibly entwined".

The final chapter
of the volume travels to antiquity in search of the roots of Hesychasm.
While Hesychasm is often associated with the fourteenth-century theology
of Gregory Palamas and the controversy it sparked, the importance of the
Macarian Homilies and Clement of Alexandria's writings for the
hesychastic tradition has been neglected. These texts draw on Plato's
Republic and Phaedo, cultivating "the concept of quiet meditation which
nourishes the eye of the soul" and follow the Aristotelian tradition of
"placing the intellect in the heart", which is "the seat of God, the
seat of faith." By engaging with Plato and Aristotle, and bringing
philosophy into dialogue with Christianity, early church fathers sought
to grasp eternal realities through "the hesychastic practice of constant
prayer in search of spiritual illumination." This understanding of
reality informed a Christian approach to Scripture, which was read with
the eyes of the soul.

*Hymns, Homilies and Hermeneutics in
Byzantium* is the 25th volume of Byzantina Australiensia and has just
been published by Brill: <https://brill.com/view/title/58934>
