---
layout: post
title: |
   Visions of Constantinople: The City and its Peoples
date: 2021-06-28
---

[Constantinople, modern Istanbul, stands at the conjunction of Europe
and Asia. Founded on the site of Byzantium by Constantine in 330 CE its
significance religiously, politically, and culturally in the succeeding
centuries from its foundation cannot be over-emphasised. But what did
this 'vision' mean to various peoples -- the Romans, the Byzantines, the
Crusaders, and the Ottomans, who inhabited the city after 1453, and up
to the modern era when Turkey was modernised by Kemal Atatürk after
1922. The city had a profound effect on all who encountered it, and its
legacy and vibrancy still attract travelers today, to modern
Istanbul.]{style="font-family: arial, sans-serif;"}

[We are
calling for papers on any topic from any period, from 330 CE-2021 CE
about what Constantinople or Istanbul has meant to those who have
encountered it, for good or ill, and to those who lived there; and how
Constantinople has impacted on the religious, cultural, and political
landscape over the
centuries.]{style="font-family: arial, sans-serif;"}

[The
editors of this proposed volume, Dr Jill Mitchell (Balkan History
Association), Dr Susan Fern (Department for Continuing Education,
University of Oxford) and Dr Vladimir Crețulescu (University of
Bucharest, Faculty of History) are interested in receiving expressions
of interest for essays to be considered for inclusion in the above work
to be published by Peter Lang (Series "South-East European History")
under the auspices of the Balkan History
Association.]{style="font-family: arial, sans-serif;"}

[Proposals
of 300 words plus a short author biography (100 words) are due 1st
September. See the
[CFP](https://www.balkan-history.com/cfp-visions-of-constantinople-the-city-and-its-peoples/)for more information.]{style="font-family: arial, sans-serif;"}
