---
layout: post
title: Call for Applications: Mary Jaharis Center Grants 2023â€“2024
date: 2022-12-03
---

The Mary Jaharis Center for Byzantine Art and Culture is pleased to
announce its 2023--2024 grant competition.

Mary Jaharis
Center Co-Funding Grants promote Byzantine studies in North America.
These grants provide co-funding to organize scholarly gatherings (e.g.,
workshops, seminars, small conferences) in North America that advance
scholarship in Byzantine studies broadly conceived. We are particularly
interested in supporting convenings that build diverse professional
networks that cross the boundaries of traditional academic disciplines,
propose creative approaches to fundamental topics in Byzantine studies,
or explore new areas of research or methodologies.

Mary
Jaharis Center Dissertation Grants are awarded to advanced graduate
students working on Ph.D. dissertations in the field of Byzantine
studies broadly conceived. These grants are meant to help defray the
costs of research-related expenses, e.g., travel, photography/digital
images, microfilm.

Mary Jaharis Center Project Grants support
discrete and highly focused professional projects aimed at the
conservation, preservation, and documentation of Byzantine
archaeological sites and monuments dated from 300 CE to 1500 CE
primarily in Greece and Turkey. Projects may be small stand-alone
projects or discrete components of larger projects. Eligible projects
might include archeological investigation, excavation, or survey;
documentation, recovery, and analysis of at risk materials (e.g.,
architecture, mosaics, paintings in situ); and preservation (i.e.,
preventive measures, e.g., shelters, fences, walkways, water management)
or conservation (i.e., physical hands-on treatments) of sites,
buildings, or objects.

Mary Jaharis Center Publication Grants
support book-length publications or major articles in the field of
Byzantine studies broadly conceived. Grants are aimed at early career
academics. Preference will be given to postdocs and assistant
professors, though applications from non-tenure track faculty and
associate and full professors will be considered. We encourage the
submission of first-book projects.

The application deadline
for all grants is February 1, 2023. For further information, please
visit the Mary Jaharis Center website
([https://maryjahariscenter.org/grants](https://maryjahariscenter.org/grants){target="_blank"}).

Contact
Brandie Ratliff
([mjcbac@hchc.edu](mailto:mjcbac@hchc.edu){target="_blank"
rel="noopener noreferrer" auth="NotApplicable" safelink="true"
linkindex="1"}), Director, Mary Jaharis Center, with any questions.
