---
layout: post
title: |
   Seeing Through Byzantium: A Celebration of the Career of Professor Leslie Brubaker
date: 2022-08-11
---

19th November 2022
0900-1730
University of
Birmingham

'Seeing Through Byzantium' celebrates the career
and scholarship of Prof. Leslie Brubaker, Professor Emerita of Byzantine
Art History and Director of the Centre for Byzantine, Ottoman and Modern
Greek Studies, University of Birmingham. Focusing on three key themes
which have been central to Prof. Brubaker's research ---Vision and
Meaning, Iconoclasm, and Gender --- the conference will feature a
selection of speakers who will reflect on the importance of her research
for their own subjects and areas of scholarship.

'Seeing
Through Byzantium' encapsulates many of the ideas and themes which have
made Prof. Brubaker one of the most eminent experts of the field. On the
one hand, it recognises her pioneering contributions to our
understanding of how the Byzantines utilised and understood images and
visual media, both as a means of communication and as a reaction to
their world. On the other, it acknowledges how her work on gender,
poverty, and family life have yielded new critical perspectives on the
Byzantine world when it is seen through the eyes of the 'other'.
Finally, it reflects on the importance of Prof. Brubaker's work in
championing the unique importance of Byzantium as a lens through which
to understand contemporary issues of global history, iconoclasm (past
and present), gender and the power of the image.

This will be
a hybrid event which will take place on the University of Birmingham
campus and on Zoom.

To register:
<https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/o/centre-for-byzantine-ottoman-and-modern-greek-studies-birmingham-31437225865>

Organisers:
Dr
Rebecca Darley, University of Leeds,Â  <R.R.Darley@leeds.ac.uk>
Dr
Daniel Reynolds, University of Birmingham <d.k.reynolds@bham.ac.uk>
