---
layout: post
title: |
   Provisioning of Late Antique Constantinople: Annona Civilis and Beyond
date: 2022-11-09
---

The Byzantine Studies Research Center at Boğaziçi University is pleased
to announce the online conference "Provisioning of Late Antique
Constantinople: *Annona Civilis* and Beyond" to take place on 2-3
December 2022.

The new capital of the eternal Roman Empire,
Constantinople, was a stage for most impressive imperial processions, a
site for grandiose religious and imperial buildings, and a home to vast
shopping streets and fora. All these activities and places found meaning
when large crowds were present, but such large crowds could not reside
in cities with poor provisioning capacity. Late antique
Constantinople's social and cultural activities, economic life, and the
interactions between its residents and the state machinery took place in
the background of a provisioning system that made possible the constant
movement of commodities and people in and out of the city.

In
spite of its importance, the provisioning of late antique Constantinople
is an understudied subject compared to the supply of the city in the
Middle Byzantine period or the provisioning of Imperial Rome. The
scholarly production on the subject is mostly dated to the twentieth
century. The online conference aims to bring together the new evidence
from recent excavations in both modern Istanbul and in other regions of
the Empire that contributed to the supply of Constantinople (from the
fourth century to the early Middle Ages) as well as new insights
resulting from the rereading of written sources in the light of new
theoretical approaches. This process will most definitely lead to a new
understanding of *annona civilis*, and, as a result, to a deeper
knowledge of a major facet of the economic life of the late antique
Eastern Roman Empire.

Please send an email message to
[byzantinestudies@boun.edu.tr](mailto:byzantinestudies@boun.edu.tr){target="_blank"
rel="noopener noreferrer" auth="NotApplicable" safelink="true"
linkindex="0"} if you have not already registered.
